I'm going to tell you something that is
not going to be easy to hear, especially
if you're about to give a presentation
or a speech.
The audience probably isn't going to
remember the vast majority of what you
talk about.
If you're lucky, if you're very lucky,
your audience will retain 10% of your
message. And even that is a lofty goal
to aspire to. This is something I've
learned many times over the years giving
presentations. And a recent example, a
few years ago, I created a presentation
that was about 90% about social media
and 10% about AI, artificial
intelligence. And to this day, nobody
refers to it as the social media
presentation. Everyone calls it the AI
presentation.
And perhaps it's because I ended the
presentation talking about AI. Or
perhaps it's because the AI information,
it's a newer medium and people are more
interested in it and they find that
content more engaging. Whatever it is,
they did not remember most of the
presentation, just the 10% about AI. And
so for you to create a memorable
presentation and to transform your
audience, you want to start off by
thinking about your audience and
understanding why should they care? Why
should they care about what you're
talking about? How are you going to add
value to them? What is something you can
teach them that they are then going to
actually do and implement in their
lives? Therefore, how are you going to
be able to transform them? And once you
establish that idea, that is going to be
the main pillar of your speech because
that is what everything should funnel in
toward that main purpose, that main why,
that one thing you want to leave your
audience with and the way you want to
transform them. If we consider that most
speeches will not be remembered by the
audiences, there's a lot of data to back
this up. If you're lucky, an audience
might remember 10% of your presentation,
probably less than that. So, how do we
ensure that the audience pays attention
to what it is that we have to present?
And it's very important to capture their
attention right away. Right off the
beginning of your speech, you want to
disrupt patterns that your audience is
used to. You see, for many speakers,
especially amateur speakers, they do the
same thing. They get on stage or they
get into the front of the room and they
begin speaking to the audience and they
say, "Hey there, for those who don't
know me, my name is Wade and today I'm
going to talk about this and I'm going
to talk about that and I'll also talk
about this."
And that is how so many people start
their presentations. And when we have
that pattern, especially if we're
sitting through many speakers,
our internal filters go on and we're
we're not engaged. But if you can
disrupt that pattern, if you can do
something different, maybe it's jumping
right into a story, maybe it's asking a
thought-provoking question, maybe it's
giving a really powerful statistic,
maybe it's getting the audience to
interact and engage right away or asking
them to close their eyes and imagine
something.
whatever that is that is different, you
have a much better chance of getting the
audience's attention. And when you have
their attention from the very beginning,
there is a greater likelihood that your
overall message is going to be retained
later on. It can be very difficult for
an audience to remember a lot of the
information that a speaker presents. But
for you as a speaker, one of the ways
you can allow your audience to remember
your message is to challenge a belief.
Challenge something that they have,
whether it's an assumption or a
viewpoint or a perspective. And an
example of this, if you're speaking to a
company, they might have all drank the
Kool-Aid and they've 100% bought in that
their company is the greatest in the
industry and that they are going to be
the best company. They're going to
outlast all of their competitors.
But maybe as the speaker, you create
some friction and you challenge that
belief. You give them a different
perspective. You give them a perspective
of somebody outside the industry and you
back it with data on how maybe this
isn't how everybody views their company
and why it's beneficial for them to
understand these other perspectives.
By challenging a belief or making an
audience think about something that
they've always held close to them,
there's a much greater chance that they
will remember your presentation and take
it seriously, the information that
you're suggesting in terms of trying to
transform your audience.
An example of this for myself when it
comes to talking to people about public
speaking. Sometimes I chat to somebody
and they say I am not a speaker. I just
no absolutely I could never do that. I
could never get in front of an audience
and give a presentation.
And I push back because I have seen so
many examples of people who had that
attitude and then they started going to
Toastmasters meetings and all of a
sudden after a few months, after half a
year, after a full year, you see this
drastic transformation happen and they
gain this confidence and all of a sudden
this person is unrecognizable
from the version of themselves that
first showed up to that Toastmasters
meeting. I've seen other examples of
this on Tik Tok and Instagram reels
where people give themselves a 100 day
speaking challenge and on day one and
day two they're really nervous to speak
to the camera and by day 100 they have
an air of confidence about them. They're
speaking they're riffing off the top of
their head. They're engaging with other
people in some instances.
It's so impressive to see the growth.
And so if you can challenge your
audience, if they have a limiting belief
about themselves and you can challenge
them to aspire to more, there is a great
chance that you will actually make an
impact on your audience. Considering
that your audience in the best case
scenario will likely only remember 10%
of your presentation you deliver to
them, and that's best case scenario. You
want to be really mindful about what the
actionable message is that you leave
them with. What is that 10% you want
them to walk away from? And then you
should ensure that the rest of your
presentation doesn't distract from that,
doesn't water it down. It should rather
reinforce it. And I'll start with the
example of slides or powerpoints. So, if
you're using a PowerPoint presentation,
one of the worst things you can do is
have an incredible amount of text on
those slides because the audience is
going to be distracted from you
presenting. They're going to be trying
to read all of those words and the text
is probably too small and they're
squinting and this is all distracting.
Instead, if you have visuals, these
visuals should be just subtle reminders
or cues that tie in to that main major
theme. And again, if you're giving
people five tips or three tips, these
are probably going to be little
subheadings of what the central theme
is, but each of these should serve and
reinforce that one idea that you want
your audience to take away. And then at
the end of the speech, you should remind
your audience what is that thing that
you want them to go and do. And think
about how your audience can benefit from
doing this. You're not just trying to
get your audience to take action for the
point of taking action. You want to add
value to them. So what is that idea that
will actually help them? And then how do
you ensure that the audience remembers
to do that when they leave that they
don't forget your message 10 minutes
later that they actually go and make a
meaningful change in their lives. Most
audiences will forget what a speaker has
to say. Sometimes an hour after that
presenter has given a presentation. Even
if the presenter had the audience
laughing and engaged, there's still a
slim chance the audience will really
retain the information and an even
slimmer chance they will go and make
changes in their own lives after the
presentation is done. But one of the
ways that really increases your
opportunity for success of transforming
your audience is getting your audience
to take notes, to write things down.
One of the ways I've started doing this
is on my slides, I always have a few key
ideas and I've started adding a little
pen icon to the visual slide and that is
a reminder to the audience. And I
pointed out, I said, "When you see this
pen, that is your cue. I want you to
write down what is on that slide." And I
reinforce it. And I make sure it is an
easy to remember, only a few words, but
I get them to physically write it down.
And then I make eye contact and I watch
and I make sure that people actually
are, whether it's on a piece of paper or
on their phones, writing down the
information. Because when we write
something down, there is this
connection, a kinesthetic learning of
sorts that makes us more likely to
actually implement those things. Far
more likely than if we're simply sitting
there listening to the information and
taking no action.
As speakers, we should really want like
the best compliment is not somebody
coming up afterwards saying, "You
crushed that. High five. Way to go." The
best thing, the best compliment an
audience member can give you is showing
you a full page of notes written out and
saying,"I got so much value from this
presentation. I wrote so many things
down. I'm going to go implement these in
my life." That is the best thing ever.
And so that is what you should strive
for. But it's very important that you
are intentional about getting your
audience to take notes. When we break
down some of the surveys and data around
how much information is remembered by
audiences after presentations,
it's pretty shocking because we can be
motivated sitting there in the audience.
But the number of people who will go and
take action after listening to
information from a presenter is very
small. It is a very small amount of the
audience and as a presenter you want to
make that number as large as possible.
You want to transform your audience. You
want people to go and take action that
your words stick beyond simply
entertaining them for a few minutes. One
of the best ways to do this is to stand
out to do something really unique. And I
have a few ideas for you. The first is
something called pachukucha.
Pachukucha is a presentation style where
you have 20 slides such as PowerPoint
slides or Canva or wherever you're
building your deck. 20 slides and they
are 20 seconds each. So this makes for a
6 minute 40se secondond I think that's
the math presentation
where the visuals are moving without you
advancing them. So it's a pre-timed
presentation. What this means is that
you have to be very dialed on your
timing and if there's ever audience
laughter, you almost have to account for
that in the timing of your slides or
else you'll have to speed up and pretty
quickly you can get behind. So, it
requires a ton of practice, but it is
incredibly unique to see a presenter
walking around the stage without any
clicker in his or her hands and is
simply presenting and the slides are
automatically advancing. That is
memorable. That is unique. Very few
presenters do that. The next thing you
could do is you could kill the slides
partway through. You could purposefully
have a few slides as you're presenting
and then whether you make a statement or
not, say, "I'm going to kill the slides
from here. We're just going to focus on
this." And then everyone's attention
draws to you. And again, it's pattern
disruption. Very few speakers will do
that. Another technique is walking out
amongst your audience. A lot of speakers
will stand behind a lectern and they
will grip the sides of it and they will
never move away from it and that limits
so much body language. So the next step
up is speakers will move away from the
lectern and they'll walk around the
stage. But an advanced level is getting
off that stage, walking through the
audience, talking to them as you move
through the aisles.
Not every venue can facilitate this type
of interaction, but the speakers who are
able to do this, it's incredibly
powerful and again it disrupts a
pattern. These tips are not for beginner
speakers. I have created a lot of video
content which can help you if you are
about to give your first presentation.
These types of speeches that I'm talking
about are incredibly advanced. They're
for people who have give given many
presentations but they want to take it
to the next level. They want to stand
out even more. These are some of the
ways you can do that. The final way you
can transform your audience and make a
memorable presentation because remember
most presentations are not going to be
remembered by the audience. The data is
crazy. It's like less than 10% of your
message will actually be retained by the
audience. With that in mind, pick one
thing, one thing you want your audience
to remember and have a call to action.
Remind your audience of that one message
and then challenge them with something.
give them one specific thing where you
want them to walk away and then actually
implement something in their lives. An
example of this is one of the best
speakers I have ever seen present in
person is somebody named Hal Lrod. And
Hal Lrod is the author of the miracle
morning. And he talks about how many
successful people start their mornings
with one of six activities or sometimes
six of six activities. And these have to
do with journaling, visualization or
meditation, exercise, reading,
affirmations. I'm missing one of them,
but you get the point. It's these
actions in the morning that are really
powerful and set the tone for the day.
And that was his call to action is for
us to start implementing those things in
the mornings. I saw him present about 10
years ago. To this day, I have that
written on my journal or my daily agenda
every single morning to do some of those
activities.
That was a transforming speech I sat
through. That was actual transformation
with me for me where Hal not only
changed my life, he actually improved it
from spending an hour on stage and
presenting. And that should be your goal
as a speaker. How do you give value to
your audience and improve their lives?
And the best way to do so is by giving
one specific call to action and giving
that challenge to your audience
and you have the ability to change their
life. I hope this video on transforming
your audience on making a memorable
presentation has been valuable for you.
If you have not already subscribed to my
channel, please do that. I am all about
helping leaders, professionals,
executives, everyone improve their
communication and public speaking
skills. And I have a lot of content on
my channel that can add value to you.
Speaking of which, YouTube right now is
recommending a video that you check out.
So, go watch it and subscribe. And thank
you for watching this